---
layout: post
title: "HolidayCheckCamp 2019"
date: 2019-07-15 12:0:00 +0200
categories: event
author_name: Álvaro Nistal Valbuena
author_url : author/alvaronistalvalbuena/
author_avatar: alvaronistalvalbuena
read_time : 5
excerpt: 
feature_image: posts/2019-07-15-hccamp/header.jpg

---

# HolidayCheckCamp 2019

As part of our mission of having the best team, last May we celebrated in the Golden Sands of Bulgaria the first edition of the HolidayCheck Camp. Around 100 people of the Product, IT, UX & Design and Agile team from 27 nationalities and 4 different office locations (Bottighofen, Munich, Poznań and Amsterdam) enjoyed a two-days conference. 

This is the only time of the year where the whole Product/IT Organisation gets the chance to meet in one place together, sit together, work together and look for ways to improve HolidayCheck's products. We review the way we work as a team and have a look back at all the good and bad things we have done during the last year. Since most of our teams are cross-location, this is a perfect opportunity to grow as one team.

## How it all began

With the goal of building one strong IT, two years ago our whole IT met during a couple of days to discuss and share views on different topics around HolidayCheck, IT, design, the travel industry and much more. This get-together was knwon as AllDevs and was the beginning of a great tradition.

This has evolved during last two editions involving more departments related to the IT organisation (Product, UX, Agile), different locations, colleagues from other companies (this last edition friends joined us from DriveBoo, Weeronline and Workpath) and new conference styles. And that brings us to what we are today, the HolidayCheckCamp or HC.Camp.

But why calling it a Camp?

- the camp is a place to meet, share and discuss.
- it introduces the nomadic view of the conference; each year, one different location.
- the naming does not limit the participants to being only devs.

## HolidayCheckCamp 2019

This last edition has taken place in Bulgaria, at the Golden Sands, in the HolidayCheck Award 2019 [Hotel Griffid Encanto Beach](https://www.holidaycheck.de/hi/grifid-encanto-beach/22201c5d-e735-3966-803a-b44572669ffa). Due to the previous work of an amazing Orga Team, the HC.Camp was an awesome experience for me, both as organiser and participant. 

(missing some text here)

The conference itself consisted of 2 different tracks: Campfire and Compass.

### Campfire Track

Following an open space format, both conference days started with a welcoming speech and a Marketplace. Every camper introduced to the others one or more topics that he/she was interested about and placed it in the schedule wall, including 5 different spaces and 7 time slots per day.

There are some basic rules to keep in mind for an open space:

- Whoever comes is the right people
- Whatever happens is the only thing that could’ve
- When it starts is the right time
- When it’s over, it’s over 

We had more than 60 different topics to discuss about, so exciting as:

- how to make our product **faster** and more **performant**
- how to bring **sustainability** to the travel industry
- how to improve the **transparency** between management and teams
- how could we improve the **collaboration** between UX and developers
- what is the future of **mobile and cross-device development** at HolidayCheck
- how to do **urlauber-friendly ads**
- we did some **hacking** and **coding** sessions
- and much more: **testing, innovation, deep learning, data and services, visual development or meeting culture**
- and we even had the chance to learn some **salsa** and **charleston** moves or get to know some insides about the **Indian culture** from our Indian colleagues

### Compass track

New this year we did a *classic* conference track where our great HolidayCheck people could bring out the speaker in them and present us the topic they are passionate about. 

Some weeks before the HC.Camp we opened a Call for Papers that got more than 20 amazing proposals that formed a full packed track of 7 talks for the second day of the conference. Also all-new this year, the talks were being live streamed to our offices and recorded. If you want to see our amazing speakers (again) on stage, these are the links to the videos:

- Georg Köhler // [Relationship innovation, should we care?](https://youtu.be/--Ct4qdShM4)
- Francesco Zanini // [Farewell Docker](https://youtu.be/x-SccVIlbl0)
- Marta Kosswoska // [How to be a good micro-manager](https://youtu.be/8-MovYbK3Hg)
- Vladimir Plokhov // [The formula of love or "True power of quantification and decomposition"](https://youtu.be/q1zKaSfera0)
- Branko Dzakula // [D-Day: Responding to a data breach in the right way](https://youtu.be/Hm6RKZiNJmA)
- Gabriel Bernal // [Augmented and Virtual Reality in the travel industry](https://youtu.be/6ptXi3Pu3aY)
- Artur Szott // [Where do good ideas come from?](https://youtu.be/A0exESwnC7Q)

## What now

After the camp is only before the camp. We are so much looking forward to the next edition and we are excited about every new idea that comes to the table. Stay tuned!

Finally, coming back to the begining of the post: only one strong team that believes in sharing, enjoy discussing very different topics to find the best solutions, knows how to have fun together and cares for each other can build the best product. And that is what the Urlauber expects from us.